# Visual Formatting Model

## Block-level elements (`display: block`)
- Block-level elements generates 1+ block-level box (Some elements, like a list-item element generating further boxes to handle bullets and other typographic elements introducing the list item, may generate more boxes). *how the box behaves with its parents and sibling*
  - principle block-level box
  - A block-level box may also be a block container box. (**block boxes**)
    - Some block-level boxes, like tables, aren't block container boxes

Block Container box *how it interacts with its descendants*
- A block container box is a box that contains only other block-level boxes,
- or creates an inline formatting context, and thus contains only inline boxes.
- some block containing boxes like non-replaced inline blocks and non-replaced table cells, aren't block-level blocks.

## Inline-level elements and inline boxes (`display: inline`)
- Inline-level elements generate inline-level boxes that are defined as boxes participating to an inline formatting context. Inline boxes are both inline-level boxes and boxes whose contents participate in their container's inline formatting context.

Inline-level boxes whose contents do not participate in an inline formatting context are called **atomic inline-level boxes**. These boxes, generated by replaced inline-level elements or by elements with a calculated display value of `inline-block` or `inline-table`, are **never split into several boxes**, as is possible with inline boxes.

<div style="width:20em; background: tomato">
   The text in the span <span style="display: inline; color: #ccc">can be split in several
   lines as it</span> is an inline box.
</div>
<p></p>
<div style="width:20em; background: tomato">
   The text in the span <span style="display:inline-block; color: #ccc">cannot be split in several
   lines as it</span> is an inline-block box.
</div>

## Anonymous block boxes
Because selectors do not work with anonymous boxes, they cannot be styled via a stylesheet. It means that all inheritable CSS properties have the `inherit` value, and all non-inheritable CSS properties, have the `initial` value.

## The positioning scheme: in the normal flow, a float, or absolute positioning

## Read more
- [MDN Visual formatting model](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/CSS/Visual_formatting_model)
